Why do some people uproot themselves, while their neighbors stay put? How does the experience of migration affect the migrants, their societies and relations between sending and receiving states? Are there differences between refugees and migrants? How effective are the international laws, policies and organizations that have evolved to assist and protect refugees and migrants?
**Ms. Hansen's Bio**
Suzy Hansen is an American journalist and editor who has lived in Istanbul, Turkey for over ten years. She is a contributing writer for the  _New York Times Magazine_ , where she writes mainly on Turkish politics, and has written about foreign affairs for many other publications. Her first book about America's role in the Middle East,  _Notes on a Foreign Country: An American Abroad in a Post-American World_ , was published in 2017 by Farrar, Straus and Giroux in the US, and in 2019 by Corsair in the UK. It was awarded the Overseas Press Club’s Cornelius Ryan Award for Best Nonfiction Book on International Affairs, and was a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize in General Nonfiction.
The talk was based on Ms. Hanson's book, "Notes on a Foreign Country: An American Abroad in a Post-American World"
“Is Democracy in Danger – and should you care?"
**Professor Jack A. Goldstone 2018 World Affairs Lecture**
Many have expressed concerns about President Trump’s impact on our democratic processes. At the same time, democracy scores around the world in 2017 reached their lowest level in the last 13 years. Are these trends related? Should Americans be concerned about the decline in democracy in other countries? Is democracy in the U.S. really under threat? Professor Goldstone will discuss why we need to care about democracy abroad to preserve it at home, and what lessons we can learn from other times in history when democracy was under threat. 
**Dr. Goldstone Bio**
Jack A. Goldstone is the Virginia E. and John T. Hazel, Jr. Professor of Public Policy at George Mason University, and a Public Policy Scholar at the Woodrow Wilson Center. Previously, Dr. Goldstone was on the faculty of Northwestern University and the University of California, and has been a visiting scholar at Cambridge University, UCLA, UC-San Diego and the California Institute of Technology, as well as director of research institutes at the Russian Academy of National Economy (Moscow) and the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology. He has been a Fellow at the Center for Advanced Study at Stanford University, a distinguished lecturer at the American Academy in Berlin, and won Fellowships from the J.S. Guggenheim Foundation, the MacArthur Foundation and the American Council of Learned Societies. He is the author of Revolution and Rebellion in the Early Modern World, awarded the 1993 Distinguished Scholarly Research Award of the American Sociological Association; Why Europe? The Rise of the West in World History; and nine other books as well as over one hundred and fifty research articles on topics in politics, social movements, democratization, and long-term social change. He has seven times won awards for “best article” in the fields of comparative-historical sociology, political sociology, and social theory, and received the Myron Weiner award for lifetime achievement from the International Studies Association. His current research focuses on conditions for building democracy and stability in developing nations, the impact of population change on the global economy and international security, and the cultural origins of modern economic growth. He has appeared on NPR, CNN, Al-Jazeera, Fox News, and written for Foreign Policy, The Atlantic, the Washington Post, Al-Hayat and the International Herald Tribune. He has also worked extensively on forecasting global conflict and terrorism, and with the US Agency for International Development and the World Bank on providing democracy assistance to fragile states. Goldstone is a life member of the Council on Foreign Relations, and served on the advisory board of the Council’s Center for Preventive Action.
Professor Jack A. Goldstone’s research focuses on conditions for building democracy and stability in developing nations, the impact of population change on the global economy and international security, and the cultural origins of modern economic growth. He has worked extensively with the US Agency for International Development and the World Bank on providing democracy assistance to fragile states. Goldstone is the author of  _Revolution and Rebellion in the Early Modern World_[1993; 2016], awarded the 1993 Distinguished Scholarly Research Award of the American Sociological Association; and,  _Why Europe? The Rise of the West in World History_[2008]. He is blog posts can be found at 
"Systemic Corruption and Its Dangers – At Home and Abroad" 
**Presented by Sarah Hayes - Senior Associate - Carnegie Endowment for International Peace**
Sarah Chayes is an international authority on corruption and its implications. Her work explores how it exacerbates international crises such as terrorism, revolutions and their violent aftermaths, and environmental degradation.
Along with _Thieves of State_ , which won the 2016 L.A. Times Book Prize, Chayes is the author of the _Punishment of Virtue: Inside Afghanistan After the Taliban_
Sarah Chayes, senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and author of _Thieves of State: Why Corruption Threatens Global Security_ , is an international authority on corruption and its implications. Her work explores how it exacerbates international crises such as terrorism, revolutions and their violent aftermaths, and environmental degradation.
In May 2016, Chayes participated alongside UK Prime Minister David Cameron, Secretary of State John Kerry and world leaders from more than 40 countries at the first ever international summit devoted to tackling corruption. 
Before joining Carnegie, she served as special assistant to the top U.S. military officer, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Admiral Mike Mullen. She participated in Cabinet-level decision-making on Afghanistan, Pakistan and the Arab Spring, traveling with Mullen frequently to these regions. He tapped Chayes for the job after her work as special advisor to two commanders of the international troops in Afghanistan (ISAF). She contributed her unique knowledge of the Afghan south to the ISAF command. 
It was a sense of historic opportunity that prompted Chayes to renounce her journalism career in early 2002, after covering the fall of the Taliban for National Public Radio, and to remain in Afghanistan to help rebuild the country. She chose to settle in the former Taliban heartland, Kandahar. 
In 2005, Chayes founded
From 1996-2001, Chayes was NPR Paris correspondent. For her work during the Kosovo crisis, she shared the 1999 Foreign Press Club and Sigma Delta Chi awards. 
Along with _Thieves of State,_ which won the 2016 L.A. Times Book Prize, Chayes is the author of _The Punishment of Virtue: Inside Afghanistan After the Taliban_
"Why does U.S. Foreign Policy Keep Failing" 
**Presented by Stephan Walt -****The Robert and Renée Belfer Professor of International Affairs****(John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University)**
What We Learned:
    * Why have relations with Russia deteriorated so badly?
    * Why have repeated US efforts—by both Republicans and Democrats—to mediate peace in the Middle East failed?
    * Why did Republicans and Democrats embrace President Bush’s decision to invade Iraq in 2003, despite clear warnings that the war was unnecessary and that the US had no “exit strategy?"
    * Why has President Obama followed many of the same national security policies as his predecessor, even though he was elected in part to change them?
    * How are we to understand the failures in Iraq, Afghanistan, Libya, Syria, Ukraine and elsewhere, along with the deterioration of relations with Russia and China and the crises that have buffeted Europe?
**Stephen M. Walt Bio**
Stephen M. Walt is the Robert and Renée Belfer Professor of International Affairs at Harvard’s John F. Kennedy School of Government, where he served as Academic Dean from 2002 to 2006. He is a contributing editor at  _Foreign Policy_ magazine, co-chair of the editorial board of  _International Security,_ and co-editor of the  _Cornell Studies in Security Affairs_ book serie _s._ He was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in May 2005 and received the International Studies Association’s Distinguished Senior Scholar award in 2014. His books include  _The Origins of Alliances_ , which received the 1988 Edgar S. Furniss National Security Book Award, and  _Taming American Power: The Global Response to U.S. Primacy,_ which was a finalist for the Lionel Gelber International Affairs Book Award and the Arthur Ross Book Prize. His most recent book,  _The Israel Lobby and U.S. Foreign Policy_ (co-authored with John J. Mearsheimer) was a  _New York Times_ best-seller and has been translated into more than twenty foreign languages. His weekly  _FP_ column is at 

## We’re Here to Answer Your Questions.
World Affairs Lecture Series
Edwards Hall10501 FGCU Boulevard SouthFort Myers, Florida 33965
(239) 590-7487
CONTACT
[Contact Us](https://www.fgcu.edu/about/contactus "Contact Us")