# Source: https://www.fgcu.edu/worldaffairslectures/

This website stores cookies on your computer to improve your browsing experience. The university does not collect personal information as you browse. Learn about our [Privacy](https://www.fgcu.edu/generalcounsel/resources) and [GDPR](https://www.fgcu.edu/gdpr/) statements.

  ## Bringing the World to Campus
Established in 2016 and hosted by the Department of Political Science and Public Administration, the Liebert World Affairs Lecture Series brings world-class scholars offering new and different perspectives on world politics to campus. Students, faculty, staff and the Southwest Florida community have long enjoyed engaging lectures that stimulate the mind. 
###  2026 Liebert Speakers   
| 
### **Professor Ho-fung Hung**
_Johns Hopkins University_
###  **The China Question:****Eight Centuries of Fantasy and Fear**
**Saturday, February 7, 2026 • 5:30 pm** **Edwards Hall, Rm. 112** For centuries, Western scholars portrayed China either as a land of superior morality, economy, and governance or as a formidable country of pagans that posed a global threat to Western values. Idealized images of China were used to shame rulers for their incompetence, while China was demonized as an external threat to cover up domestic political failures. In the twentieth century, the geopolitics of global capitalism have facilitated more nuanced perspectives, but the diversifying of knowledge about China is far from complete. In this thought-provoking study, Ho-fung Hung finds that both Western elites and China's authoritarian regime today continue to promote many Orientalist stereotypes to advance their economic interests and political projects. He shows how big-picture historical, social, and economic changes are inextricably linked to fluctuations in the realm of ideas. Only open debate can overcome extremes of fantasy and fear. **Ho-fung Hung** is the Henry M. and Elizabeth P. Wiesenfeld Professor in Political Economy in the Department of Sociology and the Nitze School of Advanced International Studies at the Johns Hopkins University. He is the author of _Protest with Chinese Characteristics_ (Columbia, 2011), _The China Boom_ (Columbia, 2015), _City on the Edge: Hong Kong under Chinese Rule_ (Cambridge, 2022), _Clash of Empires: From “Chimerica” to the “New Cold War”_ (Cambridge, 2022), _The China Question: Eight Centuries of Fantasy and Fear_ (Cambridge, 2026) and _Greenback Empire: Global Dollar Dominance and the New Cold War_(Chicago, 2026). His academic publications have been translated into at least 12 different languages. His analysis of global and Chinese politics and economy has been cited or featured in major media outlets worldwide. He has served as an expert witness at the US Congressional-Executive Commission on China and has been consulted in closed-door meetings in think tank organizations and government bodies in Washington, London, Ottawa, and Canberra. Registration:  | 
### **Professor Vali Nasr**
_Johns Hopkins University_
###  **The United States and Iran:****Roots of the Conflict and What Comes Next**
**Saturday, March 14, 2026 • 5:30 pm** **Edwards Hall, Rm. 112** Iran has for decades been one of the most significant foreign policy challenges facing The United States. What has driven Iran’s conflict with the West? What are the country's goals? Vali Nasr will discuss Iran’s political history to explain the actions and ambitions of the country’s leaders and outline the strategy that drives it actions on the world stage.  **Vali Nasr** is the Majid Khadduri Professor of International Affairs and Middle East Studies at Johns Hopkins-SAIS. Between 2012 and 2019 he served as the Dean of the School, and between 2009 and 2011 as Senior Advisor to U.S. Special Representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan, Ambassador Richard Holbrooke. Nasr is the author of several acclaimed books including, _Iran’s Grand Strategy: A Political History_ ; _How Sanctions Work, Iran and the Impact of Economic Warfare_ ; _The Dispensable Nation: American Foreign Policy in Retreat; The Shia Revival: How Conflicts within Islam will Shape the Future;_  _Democracy in Iran_ ; as well as articles in scholarly journals and commentary in _The_  _New York Times, Foreign Affairs, Financial Times, Wall Street Journal, and The Washington Post_. He is a member of Global Board of Trustees of Asia Society, the recipient of Carnegie Scholar Award, and the Frank Guggenheim, and MacArthur Foundation research fellowships. He was selected as Henry Alfred Kissinger Distinguished Scholar at Library of Congress for 2024-25. Registration:   |  
| --- | --- |  
Helpful Resources
  * [FGCU Political Science/Public Administration Department](https://www.fgcu.edu/cas/departments/pspa/ "FGCU Political Science & Public Administration Department")

**WGCU Interviews with Liebert Speakers**
### Did you know?
When you support FGCU, your gifts help to shape lives and create opportunities that impact generations to come.
[DONATE](https://donate.fgcu.edu/g/pspa "DONATE")
### About our department
The mission of the Department of Political Science and Public Administration is to contribute to effective policy-making and administration in the public sector, as well as to advance knowledge about government and politics at the local, state, national, and international levels. 
[GET DETAILS](https://www.fgcu.edu/cas/departments/pspa/ "Political science department") [College Details](https://www.fgcu.edu/cas/ "College Details")
  * Liebert Family Legacy
[Toggle More Info](https://www.fgcu.edu/worldaffairslectures/#LiebertFamilyLegacy)
Bernice Liebert Bongiorno died in March 2008 at age 92. Her first husband, noted neuropsychiatrist Erich Liebert, died in 1960. She left a bequest that established the Dr. Edward Liebert Endowed Scholarship Fund and the Dr. Erich Liebert World Affairs Program Endowment Fund.
The couples' daughter, Pamela Liebert, a Southwest Florida resident, says of her parents, "He was the love of her life and she wanted to make a gift that would honor him. She knew he loved teaching and thought this was a good way to accomplish that."Dr. Liebert held a professorship at Northwestern University's Feinberg School of Medicine, ran a medical practice in Chicago and conducted a great deal of research in the area of psychiatric illness. He was also the clinical director of Elgin State Hospital and was a fellow in the American Academy of Neurology.The couple lived in Elgin, Illinois for many years, spending part of each winter on Fort Myers Beach as far back as the 1950s.
Bernice Liebert Bongiorno died in March 2008 at age 92. Her first husband, noted neuropsychiatrist Erich Liebert, died in 1960. She left a bequest that established the Dr. Edward Liebert Endowed Scholarship Fund and the Dr. Erich Liebert World Affairs Program Endowment Fund.
  * [Toggle More Info](https://www.fgcu.edu/worldaffairslectures/)
  * Previous Liebert Lectures
[Toggle More Info](https://www.fgcu.edu/worldaffairslectures/#PreviousLiebertLectures)
### **The Seismic Shift in Syria and its Regional Implications**
**Dr. Murhaf Jouejati**
Dr. Jouejati holds a Ph.D. in International Relations from the University of Utah and an M.A. in Arab area studies from Georgetown University.
### _Not One Inch: America, Russia, and the Making of Post-Cold War Stalemate_
**Professor****Mary****Elise****Sarotte** _Not One Inch: America, Russia, and the Making of Post-Cold War Stalemate,_ was shortlisted for both the Cundill History Prize and the Duke of Wellington History Medal; received the Arthur Ross Prize Silver Medal; won the Pushkin House Prize for Best Non-Fiction Book on Russia; and is now appearing in multiple European and Asian countries, including a best-selling updated version for German speakers. One of her earlier books,_The Collapse: The Accidental Opening of the Berlin Wall,__Economist, Financial Times,_ and _BBC History_ Book of the Year. Its predecessor,_1989: The Struggle to Create Post-Cold War Europe_ —also a _Financial Times_ Book of the Year—won both the Ferrell Prize and the Shulman Prize for best book on Soviet foreign relations.
Dr. SarotteSarotte
### Why Political Ideas Matter
**Professor Charles King** is a historian, social scientist, and author. His books include the  _New York Times_ -bestselling  _Gods of the Upper Air_ , which received the Francis Parkman Prize and was shortlisted for the National Book Critics Circle Award, the  _Los Angeles Times_ History Prize, and the British Academy’s Al-Rodhan Prize for Global Cultural Understanding. His other books include  _Odessa_ , winner of a National Jewish Book Award,  _Midnight at the Pera Palace,_ and most recently  _Every Valley: The Desperate Lives and Troubled Times That Made Handel’s Messiah_ , which was named a  _New York Times_ Notable Book of 2024. He is a professor of international affairs and government at Georgetown University. 
“Making Autocracy Worse:How Putin's War in Ukraine has Ruined 30 Years of Reform in Russia”
**Omer Bartov** **is the Samuel Pisar Professor of Holocaust and Genocide Studies at Brown University.**
Omer Bartov has also written on representations of antisemitism in twentieth-century cinema. More recently he has focused on interethnic relations, violence, and population displacement in Europe and Palestine. His latest books include _Anatomy of a Genocide: The Life and Death of a Town Called Buczacz_ (2018),  _Tales from the Borderlands: Making and Unmaking the Galician Past_ (2022), and  _Genocide, The Holocaust and Israel-Palestine: First-Person History in Times of Crisis_ (2023)_._ He is currently writing a book tentatively titled “The Broken Promise: A Personal-Political History of Israel and Palestine,” which is dedicated to investigating the first generation of Jews and Palestinians in Israel, a generation to which he also belongs. His novel,  _The Butterfly and the Axe_ , was published in 2023 in the United States and Israel. 
**Omer Bartov** is the Samuel Pisar Professor of Holocaust and Genocide Studies at Brown University. Born in Israel and educated at Tel Aviv University and St. Antony's College, Oxford, his early research concerned war crimes in World War II and the links between war and genocide.
“U.S.-China Rivalry in a Neomedieval World: Security in an Age of Weakening States”
**By Timothy R. Heath, Senior International Defense Researcher at the RAND Corporation**
In addition to his publications with the RAND Corporation, Heath has published numerous articles and one book. Fluent in Mandarin Chinese, he has extensive experience analyzing China's national strategy, politics, ideology, and military, as well as Asian regional security developments. He has a Ph.D. in political science from George Mason University and an M.A. in Asian studies from The George Washington University. 
**Timothy R. Heath** is a senior international defense researcher at the RAND Corporation. Prior to joining RAND, Heath had over fifteen years of experience in the U.S. government researching and analyzing military and political topics related to China.
“The Gaza War and the Crisis of the Greater Middle East” 
**By F. Gregory Gause III, Professor of International Affairs and John H. Lindsey ’44 Chair at the Bush School of Government and Public Service, Texas A &M University. **
Professor Gause's research focuses on the international politics of the Middle East, particularly the Arabian Peninsula and the Persian Gulf, and American foreign policy toward the region. He has published three books, most recently _The International Relations of the Persian Gulf_ (Cambridge University Press, 2010). His articles have appeared in  _Foreign Affairs_ ,  _Foreign Policy_ ,  _Middle East Journal_ ,  _Security Studies_ ,  _Journal of Democracy_ ,  _Washington Quarterly_ ,  _National Interest_ , and in other journals and edited volumes. He received his Ph.D. in political science from Harvard University in 1987 and his B.A. (summa cum laude) from St. Joseph's University in Philadelphia in 1980. He studied Arabic at the American University in Cairo (1982-83) and Middlebury College (1984).
**F. Gregory Gause III** is Professor of International Affairs and John H. Lindsey ’44 Chair at the Bush School of Government and Public Service, Texas A&M University. He served as Head of the School’s Department of International Affairs from 2014 to 2022 and is an affiliate of the School’s Albritton Center for Grand Strategy. He is currently working at the Bush School's teaching site in Washington, D.C., where he is also a Senior Associate at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. He was previously on the faculties of the University of Vermont (1995-2014) and Columbia University (1987-1995) and was Fellow for Arab and Islamic Studies at the Council on Foreign Relations in New York (1993-1994). During the 2009-10 academic year he was Kuwait Foundation Visiting Professor of International Affairs at the Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University. In spring 2009 he was a Fulbright Scholar at the American University in Kuwait. In spring 2010 he was a research fellow at the King Faisal Center for Islamic Studies and Research in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. From 2012 to 2015 he was a non-resident Senior Fellow at the Brookings Doha Center. 
“Making Autocracy Worse:How Putin's War in Ukraine has Ruined 30 Years of Reform in Russia”
**By Kathryn Stoner ( Mosbacher Director of the Center on Democracy, Development, and the Rule of Law (CDDRL))**
In addition to many articles and book chapters on contemporary Russia, she is the author or co-editor of six books: "Transitions to Democracy: A Comparative Perspective," written and edited with Michael A. McFaul (Johns Hopkins 2013); "Autocracy and Democracy in the Post-Communist World," co-edited with Valerie Bunce and Michael A. McFaul (Cambridge, 2010); "Resisting the State: Reform and Retrenchment in Post-Soviet Russia" (Cambridge, 2006); "After the Collapse of Communism: Comparative Lessons of Transitions" (Cambridge, 2004), coedited with Michael McFaul; and "Local Heroes: The Political Economy of Russian Regional" Governance (Princeton, 1997); and "Russia Resurrected: Its Power and Purpose in a New Global Order" (Oxford University Press, 2021).
She received a BA (1988) and MA (1989) in Political Science from the University of Toronto, and a PhD in Government from Harvard University (1995). In 2016 she was awarded an honorary doctorate from Iliad State University, Tbilisi, Republic of Georgia.
**Kathryn Stoner** is the Mosbacher Director of the Center on Democracy, Development, and the Rule of Law (CDDRL), and a Senior Fellow at CDDRL and the Center on International Security and Cooperation at FSI. From 2017 to 2021, she served as FSI's Deputy Director. She is Professor of Political Science (by courtesy) at Stanford and she teaches in the Department of Political Science, and in the Program on International Relations, as well as in the Ford Dorsey Master's in International Policy Program. She is also a Senior Fellow (by courtesy) at the Hoover Institution.
“The Current State of U.S.-Mexico Relations: Partners or Distant Neighbors?”
**By Professor Guadalupe Correa-Cabrera ( The New School for Social Research)**
Professor Correa-Cabrera is author of _Los Zetas Inc.: Criminal Corporations, Energy, and Civil War in Mexico_(University of Texas Press, 2017; Spanish version: Planeta, 2018). She is co-editor (with Victor Konrad) of _North American Borders in Comparative Perspective_(University of Arizona Press, 2020). Her two most recent books (co-authored with Dr. Tony Payan) are entitled _Las Cinco Vidas de Genaro García Luna_(The Five Lives of Genaro García Luna; El Colegio de México, 2021) and(The Improvised War: Calderón’s Years and Consequences; Océano, 2021). She is currently working on a new book project tentatively titled: Coyotes Inc.:_The Industry of Human Smuggling and its Transnational Crime Networks_. She is co-editor of the _International Studies Perspectives_ journal (ISP, Oxford University Press) and past President of the Association for Borderlands Studies (ABS).
**Professor Guadalupe Correa-Cabrera**(Ph.D. in Political Science, The New School for Social Research) is Professor at the Schar School of Policy and Government, George Mason University. Her areas of expertise include Mexico-U.S. relations, organized crime, immigration/migration, border security, social movements and human trafficking.
“What Kind of World Order? Unipolar, Multipolar, 'Post-American' or Multiplex”
**By Amitav Acharya (UNESCO Chair, American University)**
While many leaders, scholars and pundits see the world entering into a “multipolar”, or “post-American” phase, Professor Acharya argues that it will be a Multiplex World. In this world, there are no dominant producers, directors, actors or scripts. The US will remain a key player but will no longer enjoy global dominance. At the same time, leadership in the world will be more diverse, with several countries, non-state actors and regional blocs taking on greater roles to manage different issues areas in their own regions and the world at large. The power shift from the West to the Rest will continue. Economic and political interdependence among nations will not end but take on new forms. Such a world would face perils such as climate change and pandemics, but it is too soon to call it a “world on fire”. New ways of managing peace and stability will emerge due to a common imperative of all to survive and prosper.
**Professor Acharya's****Bio**
Amitav Acharya is the UNESCO Chair in Transnational Challenges and Governance and Distinguished Professor at the School of International Service, American University, Washington, DC. Previously he was a Professor at York University, Toronto and University of Bristol, U.K. He was the inaugural Nelson Mandela Visiting Professorship in International Relations at Rhodes University, South Africa, the inaugural Boeing Company Chair in International Relations at the Schwarzman Scholars Program at Tsinghua University, Fellow of Harvard’s Asia Center and John F. Kennedy School of Government, and Christensen Fellow at Oxford. His books include The Making of Global International Relations (Cambridge 2019: with Barry Buzan); Constructing Global Order (Cambridge 2018); The End of American World Order (Polity 2014, 2018); Why Govern? Rethinking Demand and Progress in Global Governance (editor, Cambridge 2016); The Making of Southeast Asia (Cornell 2013); Whose Ideas Matter (Cornell 2009); and Constructing a Security Community in Southeast Asia (Routledge, 2001, 2009, 2014).
“From Pax Americana to a Multiplex World: The Changing Architecture of Global Cooperation”
**By Louis W. Goodman (American University) and Amitav Acharya (UNESCO Chair, American University)**
The shifting pattern of global leadership is examined using a new concept for describing world order – Multiplexity. Our analysis shows the world order changing from British leadership (Pax Britannica) to United States leadership (Pax Americana), to what we call a “Multiplex” order, or a more decentered, pluralistically led world. To do this we use a new dataset composed of post-World War II treaties to measure interaction density and proximity allowing us to analyze leadership as a key driver of world order and thus to draw conclusions about it. Our analysis shows a decline in the relative importance of great powers, an increase in the relative leadership and power of middle and small powers, and the significance of clusters of cooperation among nations that are not geographically close. 
**Professor Goodman's****Bio**
Louis W. Goodman is Emeritus Dean and Professor of International Relations at American University’s School of International Service. He served as SIS Dean from 1986 to 2011. Under his leadership SIS became the largest school of international relations in the United States. Previously Dr. Goodman served on the faculty of Yale University’s Department of Sociology and as Director of the Latin American and Caribbean Programs of the Social Science Research Council and The Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. He has held visiting appointments at Tsinghua University (Beijing), the National University of Singapore, and Manipal University (India). He has been awarded Honorary Doctorates from San Martin de Porres University (Lima), the United Nations University for Peace (San Jose), and Ritsumeikan University (Kyoto). He has held leadership positions in the Association of Professional Schools of International Affairs, the American Sociological Association, the Latin American Studies Association, and the International Studies Association. The author of numerous books and articles, Dr. Goodman’s current research focuses on public goods and sustainable development and on democracy building and civilian control of the armed forces. 
**Professor Acharya's****Bio**
Amitav Acharya is the UNESCO Chair in Transnational Challenges and Governance and Distinguished Professor at the School of International Service, American University, Washington, DC. Previously he was a Professor at York University, Toronto and University of Bristol, U.K. He was the inaugural Nelson Mandela Visiting Professorship in International Relations at Rhodes University, South Africa, the inaugural Boeing Company Chair in International Relations at the Schwarzman Scholars Program at Tsinghua University, Fellow of Harvard’s Asia Center and John F. Kennedy School of Government, and Christensen Fellow at Oxford. His books include The Making of Global International Relations (Cambridge 2019: with Barry Buzan); Constructing Global Order (Cambridge 2018); The End of American World Order (Polity 2014, 2018); Why Govern? Rethinking Demand and Progress in Global Governance (editor, Cambridge 2016); The Making of Southeast Asia (Cornell 2013); Whose Ideas Matter (Cornell 2009); and Constructing a Security Community in Southeast Asia (Routledge, 2001, 2009, 2014).
“Democracy in Crisis”
**By Professor Kim Lane Scheppele****(Princeton University)**
Around the world, democratic citizenries are electing leaders who proceed to dismantle previously existing constitutional constraints on the power of the executive. From Hungary and Poland, to Venezuela and Ecuador, to Turkey and Russia, and even in the United States, democratically elected leaders are eschewing checks and balances and rejecting independent judiciaries, media and civil society. These new autocratic leaders appear wildly popular and are often reelected. Why have democratically elected leaders with autocratic aspirations appeared across such a wide array of democratic governments at once? How have they undermined constitutional government and yet claimed democratic legitimacy? And, most crucially, what can be done to restore the promise of constitutionalism? 
**Professor Scheppele's****Bio**
Professor Kim Lane Scheppeleis the Laurance S. Rockefeller Professor of Sociology and International Affairs in the Woodrow Wilson School and the University Center for Human Values at Princeton University. From 2005-2015, she was Director of the Program in Law and Public Affairs at Princeton. Scheppele's work focuses on the intersection of constitutional and international law, particularly in constitutional systems under stress. After 1989, Scheppele studied the emergence of constitutional law in Hungary and Russia, living in both places for extended periods. After 9/11, she researched the effects of the international "war on terror" on constitutional protections around the world. Since 2010, she has been documenting the rise of autocratic legalism first in Hungary and then in Poland within the European Union, as well as its spread around the world. Her many publications in law reviews, in social science journals and in many languages cover these topics and others. She is a commentator in the popular press, discussing comparative constitutional law, the state of Europe, the rule of law and the rise of populism. 
“New Pandemics, Old Politics”
**By Professor Alex de Waal****(Executive Director of the World Peace Foundation, Research Professor at the Fletcher School, Tufts University, and Professorial Fellow at the London School of Economics)**
We urgently need a redefinition of “pandemic” to look beyond the individual pathogen itself and understand the societal ecology in which pandemic diseases evolve, and the societal impacts that they have. In this lecture Professor de Waal examined how the concept of “pandemic” has been shaped by positivistic science and **t** he attendant concept of “conquering” disease, and how this overlooks alternative understandings of health crises and approaches to health that combine human rights with evolutionary science. I critique the pervasive notion of a “war” on disease and explore how the concept of “one health” can become an emancipatory social project.
**Professor de Waal's****Bio** Alex de Waal is executive director of the World Peace Foundation, Research Professor at the Fletcher School, Tufts University, and Professorial Fellow at the London School of Economics. He has worked on the Horn of Africa and on humanitarian issues since the 1980s as a researcher and practitioner, with a special focus on famine and humanitarian crises. He served as a senior advisor to the African Union High Level Panel on Sudan and South Sudan. He was listed among  _Foreign Policy_ ’s 100 most influential international intellectuals in 2008 and  _Atlantic_ ’s 29 ‘brave thinkers’ in 2009. De Waal’s recent books include:  _The Real Politics of the Horn of Africa: Money, War and the Business of Power_ (Polity 2015),  _Mass Starvation: The history and future of famine_ (Polity 2018), and  _New Pandemics, Old Politics: 200 years of the war on disease and its alternatives_ (Polity 2021).
“Do Morals Matter? Presidents and Foreign Policy”
**By Professor****Joseph S. Nye, Jr (Executive Director of the World Peace Foundation, Research Professor at the Fletcher School, Tufts University, and Professorial Fellow at the London School of Economics. )**
We urgently need a redefinition of “pandemic” to look beyond the individual pathogen itself and understand the societal ecology in which pandemic diseases evolve, and the societal impacts that they have. In this lecture Professor de Waal examined how the concept of “pandemic” has been shaped by positivistic science and the attendant concept of “conquering” disease, and how this overlooks alternative understandings of health crises and approaches to health that combine human rights with evolutionary science. I critique the pervasive notion of a “war” on disease and explore how the concept of “one health” can become an emancipatory social project.
**Professor Nye****'s Bio** Dr. Nye is a University Distinguished Service Professor Emeritus and former Dean of Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government. He received his bachelor's degree summa cum laude from Princeton University, won a Rhodes Scholarship to Oxford, and earned a Ph.D. in political science from Harvard. He has served as Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs, Chair of the National Intelligence Council, and a Deputy Under Secretary of State, and won distinguished service awards from all three agencies. His books include "_The Future of Power"_ , "_The Power Game: A Washington Novel"_ , and (forthcoming) "_Do Morals Matter?_ " He is a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the British Academy, and the American Academy of Diplomacy. In a recent survey of international relations scholars, he was ranked as the most influential scholar on American foreign policy, and in 2011, Foreign Policy named him one of the top 100 Global Thinkers. In 2014, Japan awarded him the Order of the Rising Sun.
“How Do Populists Govern?"
**By Jan-Werner Müller (Princeton University)** Donald Trump, Silvio Berlusconi, Marine Le Pen, Hugo Chávez, Viktor Orban, Recep Tayyip Erdogan—populists seem to be on the rise across the globe. But what exactly is populism? Is there really a global wave or movement? And how do populists govern? Is populism a threat to democracy or does it represent the “true will” of the people?
**Professor****Müller's Bio**
Jan-Werner Müller is a professor at Princeton University. His books include  _"Constitutional Patriotism"_ ,  _"Contesting Democracy: Political Ideas in Twentieth Century Europe"_ , and  _"What is Populism?"_ , which has been translated into 25 languages. He writes for the London Review of Books, the New York Times, and Foreign Affairs. Jan-Werner Müller studied at the Free University, Berlin, University College, London, St. Antony’s College, Oxford, and Princeton University. From 1996 until 2003 he was a Fellow of All Souls College, Oxford; from 2003 until 2005 he was Fellow in Modern European Thought at the European Studies Centre, St. Antony’s College. Since 2005 he has been teaching in the Politics Department. Photo credit: KD Busch.
“Migrants and Refugees – A Middle East Perspective”
**By Professor Karen Jacobsen, Henry J. Leir Professor in Global Migration at The Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts University**
Why do some people uproot themselves, while their neighbors stay put? How does the experience of migration affect the migrants, their societies and relations between sending and receiving states? Are there differences between refugees and migrants? How effective are the international laws, policies and organizations that have evolved to assist and protect refugees and migrants?
**Professor Jacobsen's Bio**
Karen Jacobsen is the Henry J. Leir Professor in Global Migration at The Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy and the Friedman School of Nutrition, and directs the Refugees and Forced Migration Program at the Feinstein International Center. Professor Jacobsen’s current research explores urban displacement and global migration systems. Jacobsen works closely with practitioners and international refugee organizations and consults frequently with UNHCR, IRC, ICRC, Unicef and the World Bank. In 2013-2014 she was on leave from Tufts, leading the Joint IDP Profiling Service (JIPS) in Geneva. From 2000-2005, she directed the Alchemy Project, which explored the use of microfinance as a way to support people in refugee camps and other displacement settings.
“The Two Americas: Can Americans See America the Way the Rest of the World Does?"
**By Suzy Hansen, journalist and author**